Documentation/the good commit (#1488)
kirbydesign/designsystem: .github/CONTRIBUTING.md

### Commit

You may have encountered statements like

> Commit early, Commit often

We agree. Apart from acting as checkpoints, good commits support collaboration by providing an overview of your changes and make navigating them easy. But only as long the commits are good.

#### The good commit follows Git best practices

You are encouraged to follow commonly adopted Git best practices. We would especially like to highlight:

1. **Try to make each commit a logically separate changeset**
    - Make changes in each commit _atomic_ &ndash; focus on one thing

>     - Keep your commits as small as possible, but keep your changes in each commit related

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Keep your commits as small as possible and keep your changes in each commit related
```

Should this be an _and_ instead? 🤔

>     - If you have made multiple non-related changes and need to split them into separate commits you can use `git add --patch` to stage them

Reviewer: Took a stab at this sentence - I think it is a bit hard to read: 
```suggestion
    - `git add --patch` can be used if you need to split non-related changes from a commit into separate commits.
```

I don't know if it's much better - I will let it be up to you 😄

2. **Commit often**
    - It is easier to get an overview with multiple small changes than one large commit containing lots of changes
    - If you need to roll back to a previous commit, you can do it incrementally instead of reverting every change
3. **Strive for each commit to compile/build and pass tests**
4. **Regularly push your commits to remote**
    - Early peer reviews are easier
    - In case something happens to your machine it reduces the amount of work lost
    - Makes it easier to hand over the issue to other developers if needed

#### The good commit has good commit messages

> > Keep in mind: [This](http://tbaggery.com/2008/04/19/a-note-about-git-commit-messages.html) &middot; [has](https://www.git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Distributed-Git-Contributing-to-a-Project#_commit_guidelines) &middot; [all](https://github.com/torvalds/subsurface-for-dirk/blob/master/README.md#contributing) &middot; [been](http://who-t.blogspot.co.at/2009/12/on-commit-messages.html) &middot; [said](https://github.com/erlang/otp/wiki/writing-good-commit-messages) &middot; [before](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-framework/blob/30bce7/CONTRIBUTING.md#format-commit-messages)

Reviewer: Nice! i&middot;like&middot;the&middot;dots

>
> _&mdash; Chris Beams, [The seven rules of a great Git commit message](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/#seven-rules)_

> All commits from your branch are squashed when merged with the main branch. Commit messages from individual commits end up in a list of changes in the message body of the merge commit. Try to keep that in mind when writing your commit messages.

Reviewer: Perhaps throw in an image as example 🖼

Author: I think I'll skip the image and link to the [commits on master](https://github.com/kirbydesign/designsystem/commits/master) instead. It contains _lots_ of examples.

Ideally, a good commit message will be structured into three parts:

> 1. Subject

Reviewer: To match below sentence: "The most important part is the subject line."
```suggestion
1. Subject line
```

> 2. Body

Reviewer: To match below sentence: "The message body should be used if elaboration is necessary."
```suggestion
2. Message body
```

The most important part is the subject line. The message body should be used if elaboration is necessary. We rarely use a closing line, but if you want to add useful meta-data related to your commit &ndash; such as GitHub issue number and co-author names &ndash; this is where to put it.

##### A good subject line

* will complete the sentence "If applied, this commit will..."
* is written in [imperative mood](https://www.thoughtco.com/imperative-mood-grammar-1691151) (_Fix_, not ~~_Fixed_~~, ~~_Fixes_~~ etc.)
* is limited to 50 characters

If you cannot fit your message into a 50 character subject line, consider if you've included too many changes that makes it difficult to describe concisely. Try to rephrase the subject line and use the [message body](#a-good-message-body) for elaboration.

In addition we use [gitmoji](https://gitmoji.dev) when possible to prefix the subject line with an illustrative emoji. There are several [tools](https://gitmoji.dev/related-tools) available (including a [VSCode extension](https://github.com/vtrois/gitmoji-vscode) and a [CLI tool](https://github.com/carloscuesta/gitmoji-cli)). It's optional, but very helpful when skimming through the git log.

> Good words to use as the first of the subject line:

Reviewer: This sentence reads a bit off to me. I took a stab at it:
```suggestion
The following words can be good to start out your subject line with:
```

Alternatively: 
```suggestion
Good verbs to use as the first word of your subject line:
```

I actually think I like the latter the best 😄

* Add
* Create
* Refactor
* Fix
* Release
* Document
* Modify
* Update
* Remove
* Delete

🟢 Good subject line examples:

> 📝 Update getting started documentation

> 🔥 Remove deprecated methods

> ✅  Add tests for dropdown component

🔴 Bad subject line examples:

> ~~fix a bug.~~

> > ~~more changes~~

Reviewer: I feel personally targeted... 😿

Author: Don't feel bad. Almost every fellow human does it from time to time. We're [not robots](https://www.reddit.com/r/totallynotrobots/), you know 😊

> ~~added file~~

> > ~~fix code review comments~~

Author: I'm considering reducing the examples to 2 good and 2 bad. Do you want to pick them, @MadsBuchmann?

Reviewer: I would go for 3 good and 3 bad - perhaps just remove one of the bad examples. I think all of them are pretty good, and I feel personally targeted by all of them, so I have a hard time choosing 👀 

Perhaps remove the "added file" example?

##### A good message body

> * Separate the message body from the subject line with a blank line.

Reviewer: The "a good message body" seems a bit tagged on. Which makes sense since (I at least) seldom use message bodies. If you agree with me, perhaps introduce "a good message body" with something like: 

> While we seldom use message bodies, we encourage you to do so if you find it necessary. Here is some pointers, on how to write a good one:

Reviewer: PS. All in for throwing in that migmig!

* You should use the message body to describe _what_ was done and _why_, but not how.
* Be aware that if you need to write a lot in the message body it may also be a sign of too many changes in one commit.
* Wrap lines in the message body at 72 characters

#### Read more about good commits

> For more on good git commits, see (among _many_ other):

Author: I think this should just be a heading. Any opinions on that, @MadsBuchmann?

Reviewer: Eeeeh I'm not quite sure what you mean - will follow up on slack 😄

### Commit

You may have encountered statements like

> Commit early, Commit often

We agree. Apart from acting as checkpoints, good commits support collaboration by providing an overview of your changes and make navigating them easy. But only as long the commits are good.

#### The good commit follows Git best practices

You are encouraged to follow commonly adopted Git best practices. We would especially like to highlight:

1. **Try to make each commit a logically separate changeset**
    - Keep changes in each commit to a minimum
    - Make changes in each commit _atomic_ &ndash; focus on one thing
    - Only commit related functionality for each commit
    - If you have made multiple non-related changes to a file and you need to separate them in several commits, stage your changes using `git add --patch`
2. **Commit often**

>     - Multiple smaller commits are better than one large commit

Author: Yes, I wasn't satisfied with the wording myself, but never got back to it. I'll give it one more shot.

3. **Strive for each commit to compile/build and pass tests**
4. **Regularly push your commits to remote**
    - Early peer reviews are easier
    - In case something happens to your machine it reduces the amount of work lost
    - Makes it easier to hand over the issue to other developers if needed

#### The good commit has good commit messages

> > Keep in mind: [This](http://tbaggery.com/2008/04/19/a-note-about-git-commit-messages.html) [has](https://www.git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Distributed-Git-Contributing-to-a-Project#_commit_guidelines) [all](https://github.com/torvalds/subsurface-for-dirk/blob/master/README.md#contributing) [been](http://who-t.blogspot.co.at/2009/12/on-commit-messages.html) [said](https://github.com/erlang/otp/wiki/writing-good-commit-messages) [before](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-framework/blob/30bce7/CONTRIBUTING.md#format-commit-messages).

Reviewer: Hah nice - perhaps underline each link to make it obvious that they're individual links.

Author: I don't think GitHub markdown styles include underlines. Maybe we should separate the words/links with a non-whitespace character?

Author: New commit comming up:

> Keep in mind: This · has · all · been · said · before

>

> > &mdash; Chris Beams, [The seven rules of a great Git commit message](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/#seven-rules)

Reviewer: Italics to match rest of document :) 
```suggestion
> __&mdash; Chris Beams, [The seven rules of a great Git commit message](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/#seven-rules)__
```

### Commit

You may have encountered statements like

> Commit early, Commit often

and

> Commit Often, Perfect Later, Publish Once
>
> _[Git Best Practices](https://sethrobertson.github.io/GitBestPractices/)_

#### The good commit follows Git best practices

You are encouraged to follow commonly adopted Git best practices, see for example [Distributed Git - Contributing to a Project](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Distributed-Git-Contributing-to-a-Project). These include, among others:

* Try to make each commit a logically separate changeset
  + Keep changes in each commit to a minimum
  + Focus on _one thing_ per commit
  + Only commit related functionality for each commit
  + If you have made multiple non-related changes to a file and you want them in separate commits, you can stage your changes using `git add --patch`
* Commit often

>   + Multiple smaller commits are better than one large commit

Author: Bold text looks very helpful

* Strive for each commit to compile/build and pass tests
* Regularly push your commits to remote
  + Early peer reviews are easier
  + In case something happens to your machine it reduces the amount of work lost
  + Makes it easier to hand over the issue to other developers if needed

#### The good commit has good commit messages

* Use imperative mood
* Limit the subject line to 50 characters. If you cannot fit your message into 50 characters:
  + Consider if you've included too many changes that makes it hard to describe in a brief subject line
  + Try to rephrase the subject line and use the message body for elaboration. Be aware that if you need to write a lot in the message body it may also be a sign of too many changes in one commit
* Use [gitmoji](https://gitmoji.dev) when possible. There are several [tools](https://gitmoji.dev/related-tools) available (including a [VSCode extension](https://github.com/vtrois/gitmoji-vscode) and a [CLI tool](https://github.com/carloscuesta/gitmoji-cli))

> All commits from your branch are squashed when merged with the main branch. Commit messages from individual commits end up in a list of changes in the message body of the merge commit. Try to keep that in mind when writing your commit messages.

Reviewer: (would also make it follow the structure of the above _The good commit follows Git best practices_-section)

### Commit

You may have encountered statements like

> Commit early, Commit often

and

> Commit Often, Perfect Later, Publish Once
>
> _[Git Best Practices](https://sethrobertson.github.io/GitBestPractices/)_

#### The good commit follows Git best practices

> You are encouraged to follow commonly adopted Git best practices, see for example [Distributed Git - Contributing to a Project](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Distributed-Git-Contributing-to-a-Project). These include, among others:

Reviewer: Should we change the wording, to more something along the lines of "we would like to highlight[...]"? This should be to point out that we perhaps care a bit more about these, than the rest in the _Distributed Git_-article. 

```suggestion
You are encouraged to follow commonly adopted Git best practices, see for example [Distributed Git - Contributing to a Project](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Distributed-Git-Contributing-to-a-Project). While all of the practices in that article is useful, we would especially like to highlight:
```

* Try to make each commit a logically separate changeset
  + Keep changes in each commit to a minimum
  + Focus on _one thing_ per commit
  + Only commit related functionality for each commit
  + If you have made multiple non-related changes to a file and you want them in separate commits, you can stage your changes using `git add --patch`
* Commit often
  + Multiple smaller commits are better than one large commit
* Strive for each commit to compile/build and pass tests
* Regularly push your commits to remote
  + Early peer reviews are easier
  + In case something happens to your machine it reduces the amount of work lost
  + Makes it easier to hand over the issue to other developers if needed

#### The good commit has good commit messages

> * Use imperative mood

Reviewer: I think _imperative mood_ could use some brackets, explaining what it is
> Use imperative mood (direct commands and requests, such as "Sit still")

* Describe what was done and why, but not how

> * Limit the subject line to 50 characters. If you cannot fit your message into 50 characters:

Reviewer: I think this list could also use the same formatting makeover, as mentioned in the above comment

  + Consider if you've included too many changes that makes it hard to describe in a brief subject line
  + Try to rephrase the subject line and use the message body for elaboration. Be aware that if you need to write a lot in the message body it may also be a sign of too many changes in one commit
* Put a blank line between the subject line and the message body
* Wrap lines in the message body at 72 characters
* Use [gitmoji](https://gitmoji.dev) when possible. There are several [tools](https://gitmoji.dev/related-tools) available (including a [VSCode extension](https://github.com/vtrois/gitmoji-vscode) and a [CLI tool](https://github.com/carloscuesta/gitmoji-cli))

> 

Reviewer: Perhaps throw in an example of a good commit message
